.TH "savors-view" "7" "18 May 2021" "" ""
./"################################################################
.SH "NAME"
./"################################################################
\fBsavors-view\fP \(em an internal Savors component providing options
common to all views
./"################################################################
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
./"################################################################
.nf
env OPT=VAL... (ARGS... |...) |VIEW --opt=val...
.fi
.PP
Invoke the underlying savors-view command to display the given VIEW and
provide interaction with the console and with the associated data
producer.
./"################################################################
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
./"################################################################
The savors-view command is an internally-invoked component of Savors
that handles the communication and display of supported visualizations.
It is not meant to be directly invoked by users, but is implicitly
invoked as the final element of the given command pipeline.
.PP
This document does not describe the options and behavior of the actual
underlying savors-view command.  Instead, it describes the common
user-facing options that are available for all view types through the
Savors command line.
./"################################################################
.SH "VIEW TYPES"
./"################################################################
Savors can currently display eight primary view types, each of which has
its own secondary subtypes.
.IP axis
Plots of multivariate numerical data along axes arranged in various
ways.  See savors-axis(7).
.IP chart
A variety of common chart types showing relative quantities of items
occurring in the data.  See savors-chart(7).
.IP cloud
Plots of text strings where the frequency or other count associated
with a string determines the relative size of the font it is displayed
with.  See savors-cloud(7).
.IP graph
A variety of common graph types showing the relationships between
fields in the data.  See savors-graph(7).
.IP grid
Plots arranged in a grid showing relationships between fields or the
values of fields over time.  See savors-grid(7).
.IP map
Plots of quantity and/or relationships of fields in the data occurring
in or between geographical areas.  See savors-map(7).
.IP rain
Plots of raw data fields using text or pixel lines that stream down
the screen from top to bottom.  See savors-rain(7).
.IP tree
Hierarchical plots where nested rectangles represent parent-child
relationships and the size of each rectangle represents the relative
value of a given metric compared to its peers.  See savors-tree(7).
./"################################################################
.SH "OPTIONS SUMMARY"
./"################################################################
The following options are available to all Savors views.  Defaults are
shown in brackets.  The \(cq\&=\(cq\& for options that take a parameter
is optional; whitespace may be used instead.  Detailed descriptions are
given in following sections.
.PP
.nf
\-\-color=EVAL    expression to color by
\-\-ctype=CTYPE   method to assign colors by
\-\-fields=EVALS  subset of fields to show
\-\-legend[=SIZE] show color legend [REAL width or INT pixels] [64]
\-\-legend\-pt=INT legend font point size [10]
\-\-period=REAL   time between updates
\-\-title=STRING  title of view
.fi
./"################################################################
.SH "OPTIONS"
./"################################################################
.IP "\fB\-\-color=EVAL\fP"
The expression used to assign a color to each data line (see
savors-expr(7)).  The expression is evaluated against the data
fields to produce a value, with each unique value assigned a color
according to the \fB\-\-ctype\fP option.  All data lines that evaluate
to the same value will produce the same color.  If the expression
returns an RGB hex color in the form "#XXXXXX" where X is a hex digit,
that color will be used.
.IP "\fB\-\-ctype=CTYPE\fP"
The specification of how to assign colors to the value produced by the
\fB\-\-color\fB option.  By default, colors are assigned in round robin
fashion against the default color palette in the order received.  While
sufficient for one-time visualizations, the coloring of the same view
against slightly differing data sets will likely be inconsistent, which
may make it unsuitable for multi-use visualizations.  Two color type
specifications are currently available that may be used to change this
behavior.
.RS
.PP
The type "hash:EVAL" takes an expression representing a hash function
and computes the value when the Perl variable "$_" is set to the data
line's \fB\-\-color\fP value and then uses the modulo of the resulting
hash value against the color palette.  In this way, the same
\fB\-\-color\fP value will always produce the same color.  When just
"hash" is used, the default hash function is "crc32($_)" (see
"Functions" below).
.PP
The type "heat:NUM:NUM" assigns colors using a heatmap-style rainbow
mapping.  The two numbers define the thresholds at which all
\fB\-\-color\fP values will be assigned the "coldest" and "warmest"
colors, respectively.  When just "heat" is used, it is assumed all
\fB\-\-color\fP values will be a fraction between 0 and 1.  The form
"heat:NUM:NUM:RGB:RGB" may be used to assign colors as a transition
between the first (coldest) and second (warmest) colors given as RGB hex
colors (see \fB\-\-color\fP) instead of the default rainbow mapping.
.RE
.IP "\fB\-\-fields=EVALS\fP"
A comma-separated list of expressions (see savors-expr(7)) that,
when evaluated against each data line, produces a set of values to be
plotted by the view.  Note that the number and form of the fields
depends on the specific view type being used.
.IP "\fB\-\-legend[=SIZE]\fP"
Use a portion of the view window on the right to display a color legend.
The default width is 64 pixels, but can be changed by giving either an
integer number of pixels or a real number between 0 and 1 indicating the
fraction of the width to use.
.IP "\fB\-\-legend\-pt=INT\fP"
Use the given integer point size for text in the legend.  The default is
10.
.IP "\fB\-\-period=REAL\fP"
Only update the view after the given number of seconds have elapsed.
Since it may be too time-consuming to plot every line of data received,
this option can be used to increase the time between display updates.
Note that data is still processed internally, which can be done at much
higher speed.
.IP "\fB\-\-title=STRING\fP"
Use a portion of the view window on the bottom to display the given
title string.  The string does not need to be quoted unless it contains
whitespace.
./"################################################################
.SH "EXAMPLES"
./"################################################################
The following examples only show the final view portion of the Savors
command pipeline and do not show the data directive portion.  Additional
examples with type-specific options can be found in the individual view
man pages.
.PP
Show an axis view of the default type that plots fields 3, 5, 7, and
9 where each data line is colored based on the value of first character
of field 19 with a color legend:
.PP
.RS
.nf
axis --legend --color=f19 --ctype='hash:ord' --fields=f3,f5,f7,f9
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show a chart view of the default type that plots the value of 1 plus
the square root of the absolute value of field 2, colored red with a
title "My chart".
.PP
.RS
.nf
chart --title='My Chart' --color='#ff0000' --fields='1+sqrt(abs(f2))'
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show a tree map view of the default type that plots the top-down
hierarchy of fields 3, 2, and 4 sized according to field 5, colored
using a rainbow heatmap with 0 as the coldest value and 100 as the
warmest, and refreshed every 60 seconds.
.PP
.RS
.nf
tree --color=f2 --ctype='heat:0:100' --fields=f3,f2,f4,f5 --period=60
.fi
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "FILES"
./"################################################################
/etc/savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies various global configuration items including
screen and geometry preferences, file paths, default options, and
preconfigured views.  See savorsrc(5).
.RE
.PP
$HOME/.savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies per user overrides of global configuration and
saved views.  See savorsrc(5).
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "AUTHOR"
./"################################################################
Savors was written by Paul Kolano.
./"################################################################
.SH "SEE ALSO"
./"################################################################
savors(1), savors-axis(7), savors-chart(7), savors-cloud(7),
savors-data(7), savors-expr(7), savors-graph(7), savors-grid(7),
savors-map(7), savors-rain(7), savors-tree(7), savorsrc(5)
