.TH "savorsrc" "5" "18 May 2021" "" ""
./"################################################################
.SH "NAME"
./"################################################################
\fBsavorsrc\fP \(em configuration file for Savors
./"################################################################
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
./"################################################################
The Savors configuration file consists of key-value pairs.  Keys are
the first non-whitespace word on a line with the corresponding value as
the remaining text after the first whitespace following the key.  Any
text following the hash character "#" is ignored as a comment.  A
backslash "\\" may be used as the last non-whitespace character on a
line to join that line with the one that follows.
.PP
Settings global to all users can be placed in /etc/savorsrc.  Settings
local to a single user can be placed in ~/.savorsrc and will override
global settings.  Some settings such as the "geometry" and "save_X"
settings will be stored in ~/.savorsrc when changed within the console
with the old file moved to ~/.savorsrc~.
./"################################################################
.SH "CONFIGURATION ITEMS"
./"################################################################
.IP anon_key nodefault
An arbitrary text string used for host, IP address, and user
anonymization in the view hostanon(), ipanon(), and useranon() functions
(see savors-view(7)).  This setting is only intended for ~/.savorsrc.
.IP debug_file
The file used to store debug output.  Currently, this output includes
exceptions that have caused any Savors component to abort and manual
debugging statements emitted via the Savors::Debug module.  This
setting is only intended for ~/.savorsrc.
.IP displays
A comma-separated list of displays to use when the physical monitors are
not connected to the system on which the console is running.  Each
display is of the form "host[:[xnum][:lib_dir]]", where "host" is a host
name or IP address, "xnum" is the X11 display number (see X(7)) on that
host, and "lib_dir" is the Savors library directory on that host.  The
"xnum" and/or "lib_dir" portions are optional, defaulting to "0" and
the "lib_dir" setting of the console (see "lib_dir" setting),
respectively.  For example:
.PP
.RS
.RS
.nf
displays host1,host2:3,host3::/savors/lib,host4:6:/lib
.fi
.RE
.PP
would specify that four displays should be used: a display on host1
using X11 display ":0" and console's "lib_dir", a display on host2
using X11 display ":3" and console's "lib_dir", a display on host3
using X11 display ":0" and library location "/savors/lib", and
a display on host4 using X11 display ":6" and library location "/lib".
.PP
Note that the order the displays are specified determines their virtual
arrangement (see the "wall" setting).  Each display host must be
accessible via non-interactive ssh authentication (e.g. publickey or
hostbased) and all corresponding ssh public host keys must be in the
user's or system's known host file.  The savors-view program must also
be in the default $PATH on each display host.  This setting is only
intended for ~/.savorsrc.
.RE
.IP font_size
An integer specifying the font size that should be used in the console
editor and related items.  The default is 12.
.IP frame
Enable or disable window frames, which are the traditional borders that
allows windows to be moved, resized, minimized, maximized, and closed.
A zero value disables frames and a non-zero value enables them.  Note
that manipulating windows outside of the Savors console may cause
unexpected behavior.  In particular, closing windows via the frame may
cause the current session to freeze.  By default, view windows are
shown frameless to maximize screen real estate and minimize visual
clutter.  Note that the console is always displayed with a frame.
.IP geometry
Specify the geometry of the Savors console window.  A geometry takes the
form "WxH[+-]X[+-]Y" where W and H are positive integers specifying the
width and height, respectively, of the window and X and Y are horizontal
and vertical offsets, respectively, in pixels.  Positive offsets are
relative to the top left of the screen while negative offsets are
relative to the bottom right.  The default geometry is
1024x640+400+400.  This setting is mainly intended for ~/.savorsrc,
but can be used in the global settings to specify an initial geometry.
.IP lib_dir
The directory containing Savors auxiliary files including fonts, IP
geoloation database, word cloud library, and map shape files.  The
default is /usr/local/lib.  This setting would normally be set in
/etc/savorsrc for system-wide installs and ~/.savorsrc for user
installs.  In either case, it should normally correspond to
$PREFIX/lib/savors, where $PREFIX is the value of \fB\-\-prefix\fP
given to configure during the installation process.
.IP save_X
View specifications saved under name "X" that were either predefined
by the user/admin or saved using ":w X" in the console (see savors(1)).
For example:
.PP
.RS
.RS
.nf
save_hello env repeat=1 echo hello world |rain
.fi
.RE
.PP
specifies a view saved under the name "hello" with a Savors command
line that would show a rainfall of the text "hello world".  Saved views
can be loaded into the console using ":r X" or run without the console
using "savors -c X".  This setting is mainly intended for ~/.savorsrc,
but can be used in the global settings to store useful command lines
accessible by all users.
.RE
.IP smaxx
A real number between 0 and 1 indicating the fraction of the width
across all displays that should be used for views.  The default is 1.
This setting is only intended for ~/.savorsrc when a single display is
used for the both the console and views.
.IP smaxy
A real number between 0 and 1 indicating the fraction of the height
across all displays that should be used for views.  The default is 1.
It is highly recommended to set this to a value less than 1 with a
single monitor to leave space for the console.  A value less than 1 is
also useful with Xinerama/XRandR over laptop+monitor configurations to
select a paricular subset of displays to use.  This setting is only
intended for ~/.savorsrc when a single display is used for the both the
console and views.
.IP snap_file
The file used to save snapshots taken manually with the C-s binding in
view windows as well as for automated periodic snapshots taken with the
\fB\-\-snap\fP option.  Note that automated snapshots will use the given
file as a base name to which a timestamp will be added.
.IP tcp
Enable or disable the use of TCP sockets to communicate between
components.  A zero value disables TCP sockets and a non-zero value
enables them.  Note that TCP sockets are meant for environments where
the default Unix sockets are not available (e.g. Cygwin) or when the
console, data servers, or display are not on the same system.  Also
note that data streams are not encrypted between components.
.IP wall
The grid layout in columns by rows of the physical displays configured
in the "displays" setting.  For example "wall 2x4" would indicate there
are 4 rows with 2 columns each.  The specified grid size must match the
number of displays specified in the "displays" setting.  Displays are
mapped in row order so all columns of one row are mapped before those in
the next.  For example, in the configuration:
.PP
.RS
.RS
.nf
displays host1,host2,host3,host4
wall 2x2
.fi
.RE
.PP
row 1 would consist of host1 and host2, while row 2 would consist of
host3 and host4.  This setting is only intended for ~/.savorsrc.
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "FILES"
./"################################################################
/etc/savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies various global configuration items including
screen and geometry preferences, file paths, default options, and
preconfigured views.
.RE
.PP
$HOME/.savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies per user overrides of global configuration and
saved views.
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "AUTHOR"
./"################################################################
Savors was written by Paul Kolano.
./"################################################################
.SH "SEE ALSO"
./"################################################################
savors(1), savors-axis(7), savors-chart(7), savors-cloud(7),
savors-data(7), savors-expr(7), savors-graph(7), savors-grid(7),
savors-map(7), savors-rain(7), savors-tree(7), savors-view(7), X(7)
