.TH "savors-axis" "7" "18 May 2021" "" ""
./"################################################################
.SH "NAME"
./"################################################################
\fBsavors-axis\fP \(em plot multivariate numerical data along axes
arranged in various ways
./"################################################################
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
./"################################################################
.nf
env OPT=VAL... (ARGS... |...) |axis --opt=val...
.fi
.PP
Display an axis view based on the given data pipeline.
./"################################################################
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
./"################################################################
The axis view type plots data lines across a set of axes equal in
number to the set of fields specified.  Axes may be arranged in one of
four different layouts.  The fields associated with each data line are
mapped to a point along the corresponding axes.  The higher the value of
a field, the farther along the axis it will be plotted.  Minimum and
maximum values for each axis determine the physical pixel distance
between different values.  The point along each axis is then connected
through line or arc (depending on subtype) to the point associated with
the next axis, hence a data line is represented by a connected path
between axes.
./"################################################################
.SH "SUBTYPES"
./"################################################################
The axis view has four subtypes.
.IP circle
Axes appear as arc segments along the same circle with the distance
counter-clockwise along the arc indicating the relative value of the
field.  Points on consecutive axes are connected via internal arcs
within the circle.
.IP hive
Axes appear as lines radiating from a central point with the distance
from the center indicating the relative value of the field.  Points on
consecutive axes are connected via arcs.
.IP parallel
Axes appear as vertical lines equally spaced along the horizontal region
with the distance from the bottom indicating the relative value of the
field.  Points on consecutive axes are connected via straight lines.
.IP star
Axes appear as lines radiating from a central point with the distance
from the center indicating the relative value of the field.  Points on
consecutive axes are connected via straight lines.
./"################################################################
.SH "OPTIONS SUMMARY"
./"################################################################
The following options are specific to the axis view.  See savors-view(7)
for additional options that are available to all views.  Defaults are
shown in brackets.  The \(cq\&=\(cq\& for options that take a parameter
is optional; whitespace may be used instead.  Detailed descriptions are
given in following sections.
.PP
.nf
\-\-dash=EVAL     condition to dash edge
\-\-label=STRINGS labels for axes
\-\-lines=INT     data lines to show
\-\-max=REALS     max value of each field
\-\-min=REALS     min value of each field
\-\-type=TYPE     type of plot [parallel]
.fi
./"################################################################
.SH "OPTIONS"
./"################################################################
See savors-view(7) for detailed descriptions of the options that
are available to all views.
.IP "\fB\-\-dash=EVAL\fP"
A Savors expression (see savors-expr(7)) that will be evaluated against
each data line to determine if the connected path of each data line
should be shown dashed.  Dashed paths will be shown for non-zero,
non-empty values.
.IP "\fB\-\-label=STRINGS\fP"
A comma-separated list of strings used to label each axis.  The number
of strings given must match the number of fields.  Strings do not need
to be quoted unless they contain whitespace.  Labels can be
automatically generated using the "label" data directive (see
savors-data(7)).
.IP "\fB\-\-lines=INT\fP"
An integer specifying the number of data lines to show at once.  After
the limit is reached, the oldest data line will be replaced with the
newest.
.IP "\fB\-\-max=REALS\fP"
A comma-separated list of real numbers indicating the maximum value of
each of the corresponding fields in \fB\-\-fields\fP.  Values greater
than the maximum will be adjusted to the maximum.  The number of values
given must match the number of fields.
.IP "\fB\-\-min=REALS\fP"
A comma-separated list of real numbers indicating the minimum value of
each of the corresponding fields in \fB\-\-fields\fP.  Values less
than the minimum will be adjusted to the minimum.  The number of values
given must match the number of fields.
.IP "\fB\-\-type=TYPE\fP"
The type of axis plot to show with supported values of circle, hive,
parallel, or star (see "Subtypes" above).  The default is parallel.
./"################################################################
.SH "EXAMPLES"
./"################################################################
Show a parallel coordinate plot of user process resource consumption.
In this example, the ps command is invoked every 15 seconds to collect
resource utilization.  A subset of the fields is plotted using a set of
expected maximums and colored according to the command of each process.
.PP
.RS
.nf
env repeat=15 sed='(\d)[-:](\d)/$1$2' grep_v='^USER' label_grep='^USER' \\
    ps -Nu root -o user,uid,pid,nlwp,rsz,sz,vsz,time,etime,comm \\
    |axis --color=f10 --fields=f2-f9 --period=10 --lines=600 \\
	--max=65535,100000,64,5000000,3000000,3000000,20000000,50000000
.fi
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "FILES"
./"################################################################
/etc/savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies various global configuration items including
screen and geometry preferences, file paths, default options, and
preconfigured views.  See savorsrc(5).
.RE
.PP
$HOME/.savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies per user overrides of global configuration and
saved views.  See savorsrc(5).
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "AUTHOR"
./"################################################################
Savors was written by Paul Kolano.
./"################################################################
.SH "SEE ALSO"
./"################################################################
savors(1), savors-chart(7), savors-cloud(7), savors-data(7),
savors-expr(7), savors-graph(7), savors-grid(7), savors-map(7),
savors-rain(7), savors-tree(7), savors-view(7), savorsrc(5)
