.TH "savors-chart" "7" "18 May 2021" "" ""
./"################################################################
.SH "NAME"
./"################################################################
\fBsavors-chart\fP \(em plot common chart types showing relative
quantities of items occurring in the data
./"################################################################
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
./"################################################################
.nf
env OPT=VAL... (ARGS... |...) |chart --opt=val...
.fi
.PP
Display a chart view based on the given data pipeline.
./"################################################################
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
./"################################################################
The chart view type plots data over time using one of 12 traditional
chart variants.  Composite charts of two different chart types can
also be shown.  When displayed at a given period, data can be aggregated
using a variety of statistical methods.
./"################################################################
.SH "SUBTYPES"
./"################################################################
The chart view has 12 subtypes.
.IP bar
Plot values as vertical bars with height indicating value.
.IP direction
Plot pairs of values using polar coordinates where the first value
specifies the angle in degrees and the second specifies the magnitude
of the vector at that angle.
.IP errorbar
Plot values as a point chart with error bars indicating variance of the
value.
.IP horizontalbar
Plot values as horizontal bars with width indicating value.
.IP line
Plot values as line segments that are connected between consecutive
points in time.
.IP linepoint
Plot values as line segments that are connected between consecutive
points in time with each value also plotted as a point.
.IP mountain
Plot values as stacked regions with the distance between region borders
indicating value.
.IP pareto
Plot values as a bar chart with an overlaid line chart indicating
cumulative value.
.IP pie
Plot values as wedge-shaped regions of a circle where area indicates
percentage of cumulative value.
.IP point
Plot values as points.
.IP split
Plot values along the time axis split up among multiple
vertically-stacked line charts.
.IP stackedbar
Plot values as stacked vertical bars with the height of each bar in the
stack indicating value.
./"################################################################
.SH "FORMS"
./"################################################################
Data lines shown periodically must be aggregated using a
statistical method.  The chart view supports nine forms.
.IP count
Show the number of values in each period.
.IP dev
Show the standard deviation of the values in each period.
.IP max
Show the maximum of the values in each period.
.IP mean
Show the average of the values in each period.
.IP median
Show the median of the values in each period.
.IP min
Show the minimum of the values in each period.
.IP mode
Show the mode of the values in each period.
.IP sum
Show the sum of the values in each period.
.IP var
Show the variance of the values in each period.
./"################################################################
.SH "OPTIONS SUMMARY"
./"################################################################
The following options are specific to the chart view.  See
savors-view(7) for additional options that are available to all views.
Defaults are shown in brackets.  The \(cq\&=\(cq\& for options that take
a parameter is optional; whitespace may be used instead.  Detailed
descriptions are given in following sections.
.PP
.nf
\-\-date=STRING   strftime format for time axis [%T]
\-\-fields2=EVALS secondary expressions to plot
\-\-form=FORM     aggregate period data [sum]
\-\-form2=FORM    aggregate secondary period data [sum]
\-\-label=STRING  label of y axis
\-\-label2=STRING label of secondary y axis
\-\-lines=INT     number of time lines to show
\-\-max=INT       max value of y axis
\-\-max2=INT      max value of secondary y axis
\-\-min=INT       min value of y axis
\-\-min2=INT      min value of secondary y axis
\-\-splits=INT    number of splits to plot [5]
\-\-type=TYPE     type of chart [mountain]
\-\-type2=TYPE    type of secondary chart [line]
.fi
./"################################################################
.SH "OPTIONS"
./"################################################################
See savors-view(7) for detailed descriptions of the options that
are available to all views.
.IP "\fB\-\-date=STRING\fP"
A string describing a strftime format (seem strftime(3)) that will be
used to label ticks on the time axis.  The default is "%T".
.IP "\fB\-\-fields2=EVALS\fP"
A comma-separated list of expressions (see savors-expr(7)) that,
when evaluated against each data line, produces a set of values to be
plotted on the secondary y axis.
.IP "\fB\-\-form=FORM\fP"
The method that should be used to aggregate data lines on the y axis
when \fB\-\-period\fP is used with supported forms count, dev, max,
mean, median, min, mode, sum, and var (see "Forms" above).  The
default is sum.
.IP "\fB\-\-form2=FORM\fP"
The method that should be used to aggregate data lines on the
secondary y axis when \fB\-\-period\fP is used with supported forms
count, dev, max, mean, median, min, mode, sum, and var (see "Forms"
above).  The default is sum.
.IP "\fB\-\-label=STRING\fP"
The string that should be used to label the y axis.  The string does
not need to be quoted unless it contain whitespace.  Labels can be
automatically generated using the "label" data directive (see
savors-data(7)).
.IP "\fB\-\-label2=STRING\fP"
The string that should be used to label the secondary y axis.  The
string does not need to be quoted unless it contain whitespace.  Labels
can be automatically generated using the "label" data directive (see
savors-data(7)).
.IP "\fB\-\-lines=INT\fP"
An integer specifying the number of data lines to show at once.  After
the limit is reached, the oldest data line will be replaced with the
newest.
.IP "\fB\-\-max=INT\fP"
An integer indicating the maximum value of the y axis.  Values greater
than the maximum may not be shown depending on the chart type.
.IP "\fB\-\-max2=INT\fP"
An integer indicating the maximum value of the secondary y axis.
Values greater than the maximum may not be shown depending on the chart
type.
.IP "\fB\-\-min=INT\fP"
An integer indicating the minimum value of the y axis.  Values less than
the minimum may not be shown depending on the chart type.
.IP "\fB\-\-min2=INT\fP"
An integer indicating the minimum value of the secondary y axis.
Values less than the minimum may not be shown depending on the chart
type.
.IP "\fB\-\-splits=INT\fP"
An integer indicating the number of splits to break the time axis into
when using the "split" subtype.  The default is 5.
.IP "\fB\-\-type=TYPE\fP"
The type of chart to plot with supported values of bar, direction,
errorbar, horizontalbar, line, linepoint, mountain, pareto, pie, point,
split, and stackedbar (see "Subtypes" above).  The default is mountain.
.IP "\fB\-\-type2=TYPE\fP"
The type of secondary chart to plot with supported values of bar,
direction, errorbar, horizontalbar, line, linepoint, mountain, pareto,
pie, point, split, and stackedbar (see "Subtypes" above).  The default
is line.
./"################################################################
.SH "EXAMPLES"
./"################################################################
Show a stacked bar chart of user process CPU consumption.  In this
example, the top command is invoked in batch mode every 10 seconds to
collect resource utilization.  The CPU field is plotted and colored
according to the command of each process.
.PP
.RS
.nf
env grep='^\s*\d' grep_v=' root ' time=f3 time_grep='^top' top -b -d 10 \\
    |chart --type=stackedbar --color=f12 --fields=f9+.01 --period=10
.fi
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "NOTES"
./"################################################################
The "pie" subtype has broken colorization in some cases due to a
bug in the underlying charting module used.
./"################################################################
.SH "FILES"
./"################################################################
/etc/savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies various global configuration items including
screen and geometry preferences, file paths, default options, and
preconfigured views.  See savorsrc(5).
.RE
.PP
$HOME/.savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies per user overrides of global configuration and
saved views.  See savorsrc(5).
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "AUTHOR"
./"################################################################
Savors was written by Paul Kolano.
./"################################################################
.SH "SEE ALSO"
./"################################################################
savors(1), savors-axis(7), savors-cloud(7), savors-data(7),
savors-expr(7), savors-graph(7), savors-grid(7), savors-map(7),
savors-rain(7), savors-tree(7), savors-view(7), savorsrc(5),
strftime(3)
