.TH "savors-map" "7" "18 May 2021" "" ""
./"################################################################
.SH "NAME"
./"################################################################
\fBsavors-map\fP \(em plot quantity and/or relationships of data
fields occurring in or between geographical areas
./"################################################################
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
./"################################################################
.nf
env OPT=VAL... (ARGS... |...) |map --opt=val...
.fi
.PP
Display a map view based on the given data pipeline.
./"################################################################
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
./"################################################################
The map view type plots data lines on top of traditional maps.  Items
within data lines must either contain latitude or longitude data or be
converted.  Maps for the world, US by state, and US by county are
included.  Other regions of the world can be supported by providing a
file in standard shape file format for the region of interest.  Data can
be plotted on the maps in three different ways.
./"################################################################
.SH "SUBTYPES"
./"################################################################
The map view has three subtypes.
.IP arc
Plot an arc from the first coordinate to the second.  Four field
expressions must be specified corresponding to two latitude/longitude
pairs.
.IP bubble
Plot a circle of a given size at the given coordinate.  Three field
expressions must be specified corresponding to an expression for the
bubble size and a latitude/longitude pair.
.IP heat
Fill the region containing the given coordinate with a heatmap-style
color based on the given value.  Three field expressions must be
specified corresponding to an expression for the heat value and a
latitude/longitude pair.
./"################################################################
.SH "OPTIONS SUMMARY"
./"################################################################
The following options are specific to the axis view.  See savors-view(7)
for additional options that are available to all views.  Defaults are
shown in brackets.  The \(cq\&=\(cq\& for options that take a parameter
is optional; whitespace may be used instead.  Detailed descriptions are
given in following sections.
.PP
.nf
\-\-attr=STRING     attribute containing tags
\-\-dash=EVAL       condition to dash edge
\-\-file=FILE       name of shape file [world]
\-\-max=INTS        max value of each field
\-\-min=INTS        min value of each field
\-\-no-tags=REGEX   exclude matching tags
\-\-tags=REGEX      include matching tags
\-\-type=TYPE       type of map [arc]
.fi
./"################################################################
.SH "OPTIONS"
./"################################################################
See savors-view(7) for detailed descriptions of the options that
are available to all views.
.IP "\fB\-\-attr=STRING\fP"
The attribute of the shape file associated with the \fB\-\-file\fP
option that should be used for evaluating the \fB\-\-tags\fP and
\fB\-\-no\-tags\fP options.  The attributes that will be available
depend on the shape file in use.  In the included shape files for the
world and the United States by state and county, the attributes are
described in the "lib/maps/*/*.txt" files of the distribution.
.IP "\fB\-\-dash=EVAL\fP"
A Savors expression (see savors-expr(7)) that will be evaluated
against each data line to determine if the associated arc should be
shown dashed.  Dashed arcs will be shown for non-zero, non-empty values.
This option is only applicable to the "arc" subtype.
.IP "\fB\-\-file=FILE\fP"
The base name of shape file to display.  This file must exist in a
directory of the same name under the "maps" directory in the directory
configured with the "lib_dir" setting (see savorsrc(5)).  The file
extension should not be included as it will be detected automatically
depending on the format of the shape file.  Three shape files are
included in the distribution for the world ("world"), United States by
state ("us_state"), and United States by county ("us_county").
.IP "\fB\-\-max=REALS\fP"
A comma-separated list of real numbers indicating the maximum value of
each of the corresponding fields in \fB\-\-fields\fP.  Values greater
than the maximum will be adjusted to the maximum.  The number of values
given must match the number of fields.  This option is only applicable
to the "heat" subtype.
.IP "\fB\-\-min=REALS\fP"
A comma-separated list of real numbers indicating the minimum value of
each of the corresponding fields in \fB\-\-fields\fP.  Values less
than the minimum will be adjusted to the minimum.  The number of values
given must match the number of fields.  This option is only applicable
to the "heat" subtype.
.IP "\fB\-\-no-tags=REGEX\fP"
A regular expression in Perl syntax (see perlre(1)) indicating the
tags to exclude from the plot.  These tags are values of the attribute
of the shape file specified with the \fB\-\-attr\fP option so will vary
accordingly.  When this option is specified, tags that match the 
given regular expression will not be shown even if they also match
\fB\-\-tags\fP.
.IP "\fB\-\-tags=REGEX\fP"
A regular expression in Perl syntax (see perlre(1)) indicating the
tags to include in the plot.  These tags are values of the attribute
of the shape file specified with the \fB\-\-attr\fP option so will vary
accordingly.  When this option is specified, tags that do not match the 
given regular expression will not be shown.  Tags that do match will
only be shown if they do not also match \fB\-\-no\-tags\fP.
.IP "\fB\-\-type=TYPE\fP"
The type of map plot to show with supported values of arc, bubble, and
heat (see "Subtypes" above).  The default is arc.
./"################################################################
.SH "EXAMPLES"
./"################################################################
Show a world map with the source and destination of each local TCP
connection connected by arcs colored by source IP address.  In this
example, tcpdump is used to obtain the raw data, with extraneous output
filtered by the "sed" data directive and the iplat and iplong functions
used to convert IP address to latitude and longitude, respectively.
.PP
.RS
.nf
env time=f1 sed='\.\d+ \>|\.\d+:/' tcpdump -ni any tcp \\
    |map --color=f3 --fields='iplat(f3),iplong(f3),iplat(f4),iplong(f4)'
.fi
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "FILES"
./"################################################################
/etc/savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies various global configuration items including
screen and geometry preferences, file paths, default options, and
preconfigured views.  See savorsrc(5).
.RE
.PP
$HOME/.savorsrc
.RS
This file specifies per user overrides of global configuration and
saved views.  See savorsrc(5).
.RE
./"################################################################
.SH "AUTHOR"
./"################################################################
Savors was written by Paul Kolano.
./"################################################################
.SH "SEE ALSO"
./"################################################################
perlre(1), savors(1), savors-axis(7), savors-chart(7), savors-cloud(7),
savors-data(7), savors-expr(7), savors-graph(7), savors-grid(7),
savors-rain(7), savors-tree(7), savors-view(7), savorsrc(5)
